The Prophet Isaiah foretolded that in the final part of the days, people of all nations would flock to Jehovah's elevated place of pure worship.
They would say, Jehovah will instruct us about his ways and we will walk in his paths.
Well, how happy we are to see this prophecy undergoing fulfillment right before our eyes.
The result is multicultural and multilingual, united worshipers giving praise to Jehovah.
This morning we want to share with you proof of this as we experienced on our recent branch visit.
It was truly a pleasure for Terry and myself to be teamed up with Robert and Faith Lucioni for the branch visit to three countries in Asia, from March 29th through April 19th, 2016.
Our first stop was with Japan. The 214,000 publishers in Japan are very active in the ministry.
With over 65,000 regular pioneers, they maintain one of the highest ratios of pioneers to publishers.
The branch facilities in Japan are surrounded by beautiful gardens and water features, which certainly bring honor to Jehovah's name.
We also enjoy the tour of the printer. Their presses print magazines, brochures, tracks, and books for the entire Asia region.
When it comes to Bible printing, they team up with the United States printer to print all the New World Translation Bibles for the whole world.
The Bindry in Japan has produced over 8,500,000 deluxe Bibles in 45 languages since the release of the revised New World Translation.
With the reduction in personnel in the Bethel family, a number of sisters are making adjustments to new assignments, which were formerly handled by brothers.
It was very commendable to note how these sisters make an excellent contribution to the work.
The translation department cares for the Japanese language and the Japanese sign language translations.
On Monday, we enjoyed a special noon meal with the family.
One truly special feature was the song sung by the translators and missionaries who joined the branch visit from Bangladesh.
What a beautiful group of loyal, hardworking brothers and sisters.
Along with Aluceonis, we also enjoyed field service with a local congregation.
Over the years, the brothers and sisters in Japan have set such a good example in their zeal for Kingdom Preaching.
They continue to find great joy in their ministry.
On Saturday, we enjoyed a special program at the Abena Assembly Hall.
The program was also streamed to Kingdom Halls throughout Japan, Bangladesh, and Mongolia.
The total attendance was 226,000.
Everyone enjoyed a fine interchange of encouragement from the program and the association.
Well, the time had come for us to move from Japan to Mongolia.
Mongolia is landlocked between Russia and China and is one of the most sparsely populated countries in the world.
The landscape of Mongolia consists of rivers, streams, towering mountains, and rolling grasslands.
Buddhism maintains a strong foothold in Mongolia today.
Interestingly, it wasn't until the 1990s that the good news began to be preached in this land.
In fact, the first Mongolian publishers were baptized in 1996.
There are now over 458 publishers who are currently conducting over 800 Bible studies.
The 15 members of the Bethel family make up this remote translation office or RTO.
They are located in this five-story building.
On our visit, it was our pleasure to meet Botrk and his wife.
They are both deaf and learn the truth in the mid-90s while attending college in St. Petersburg, Russia.
After college, they returned to Mongolia only to find there were no publishers in the country.
So, their baptism was held at a convention in Russia.
They became the first native Mongolians to serve in Mongolia.
Brother Bacetic now serves as a congregation elder in the Yulimbataar Sign Language Congregation.
It was very encouraging to visit with Sister Naryantoya, who works with the translation department.
She related how she came into the truth through her husband, who also worked in the translation department before he passed away.
However, his translation work did not begin there.
Brother Olyan Botrk was a doctor.
Prior to learning the truth, he went to Poland alone to make money for his family.
When he was there, he met Jehovah's Witnesses and studied the knowledge book.
He was so impressed with what he learned that he wanted to share the truth with his family.
But there was no knowledge book in Mongolian back then, so he translated the book himself.
One chapter a week and sent them as a form of handwritten letters to his family in Mongolia.
Our dear brother did this for his family, out of love for them.
As a result, his wife and children, as well as a relative's family, came into the truth.
In December 1997, he returned to Mongolia to help his family spiritually, even though he had hoped to stay in Europe until the next summer to get baptized.
He was finally baptized in May 1998.
In 1999, he officially became a translator, and the Mongolian knowledge book was officially released in 2001.
Along with the Lucionis, we visited Sister Setske, who lives in a traditional Mongolian gear or yurt.
Sister Setske has been paralyzed and bedridden for 15 years due to tumors.
She recently learned the truth and was baptized in July 2015, as she cannot leave her yurt.
But she attends meetings regularly on the phone and makes well-prepared comments.
Because she is bedridden, she does all she can to informally witness to any visitors.
Twice a week, she conducts Bible studies with her grandchildren, and at the same time cares for her family worship.
Sadly, the time came for us to leave this beautiful, happy family whom we fell in love with.
From Mongolia, we traveled to Nepal, a land of majestic mountains.
The majority of its 20 million inhabitants are Hindus.
There is, however, a great diversity in the ethnic origins of the people.
The truth began to be cultivated in the 1970s.
There are now 2,362 publishers.
The brothers and sisters are working hard in the ministry, conducting about 4,500 Bible studies.
This has been resulting in bringing in approximately 150 newly baptized ones each year.
After a short ride from the airport, we arrived at the country office, located in the heart of Kathmandu.
30 members of the Bethel family live and work in six rented buildings.
While the buildings are in the vicinity of each other, it is not an efficient arrangement, either work-wise or financially.
So it was thrilling for the family to learn that just a week before our arrival, they had closed on the purchase of a five-story office building.
On Monday, Brother Lucioni and I took the opportunity to visit the new site.
The lower floors will comfortably accommodate the translation department, audio recording, the service department, as well as the Bethel office.
This then allows for enough space for all the residence rooms for the upper floors.
A key role for this country office is the translation work.
Here at the meeting with the translation and audio video departments, it was so encouraging to see their zeal for their work.
Meet Brother Hero Moharajan, who is deaf and commutes to Bethel twice a week to assist with the sign language translation.
During the earthquake last year, his home, where he lived with his family, was completely destroyed.
Following the earthquake, it was doubtful if he could continue commuting to Bethel and supporting the translation work.
How are such ones ferry now?
A tremendous amount of relief work was carried out by the Disaster Relief Committee, or DRC.
This included building homes for about 90 families, as seen in the photos of the buildings with the blue roofs.
As a result of the DRC construction, Brother Hero now has a new home, and has resumed commuting to Bethel twice a week, working around his secular work schedule.
Despite the earthquake and all the disruption that it brought, the brothers and sisters never lost their focus on the ministry and the need to bring comfort to the neighbors.
They just love talking about the wonderful good news.
On Saturday, April 16th, brothers and sisters from Kathmandu began filling into the city's Academy Hall for the special meeting for congregations.
In addition to the 13 congregations that were invited to the venue, 30 congregations throughout Nepal were tied in.
The total attendance was 3,137.
Indeed, all praise goes to Jehovah for drawing the sheep like ones to him.
Whether they live in Nepal, Mongolia, or Japan, or any other part of the world, Jehovah is not partial, and he brings them into his beautiful organization,
that is truly united.
We are so thankful and proud to be with his people.
Yes, people of all nations are flocking to Jehovah's mountain of true worship.
Of course, Jehovah deserves the credit for elevating pure worship in this time.
Still, as fellow workers we are privileged to share in this work, sharing in this work with our brothers and sisters from every part of the earth.
How marvelous it will be when this entire globe is filled only with pure worshipers of Jehovah.